[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as the leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
to help you be a better b2b marketer
never miss an episode by subscribing on
Apple podcasts now let's get started hey
a big hello from Portland Oregon if you
are a longtime listener you know that my
episodes tend to focus on marketing and
business not so much about me all right
I am going to be up close and personal
today as I record the last episode of
2019 I decided to do a little
self-reflection a look back to my 20 19
you know what this year didn't start
very well business-wise I didn't tell
many people but my pipeline was bone-dry
the first five months I have speaking
engagements here and there and small
projects but nothing steady or
substantial I was so scared so scared
that I started considering going back to
be a four-time corporate citizen really
you know how you are hitting a wall and
can break through and you don't know
what the next steps are that's how I
feel earlier this year was several
months the key was that I had a good run
and great run for the first four years
and I didn't do a very good job to
continuously developing myself by
playing I got very cocky I did and
thought the business which has come well
it didn't come at all the first half of
the year so I started investing in
business development and be evaluating
my business model
I started prospecting and I talked about
how I started bad in my blog post
lessons learned from doing virtual call
calls we are linking sales navigator I
also evaluate in my business model
most of my projects are two to ten month
long engagements the purchase cycle to
get a project like that is long because
I'm in b2b my purchase cycle for new
clients can range from three to eighteen
months yes I'm not kidding so that's not
a quick turnaround to increase revenue
on buildings isn't it project like that
I still the bulk of my revenue now I
offer 10 hour and 15 hour consultation
and a mental packages the cost for these
packages is smaller and the main EP to
be marketers can pretty much pick using
corporate credit cards it doesn't
involve appeal or the challenge of being
an approved vendor I've been testing
this new model and so far it has been
well-received by people who came to my
sessions and the workshops I start
getting inquiries from people who listen
to my podcast as well the people who
reach out for this kind of help and
services are newly promoted VPS of
marketing marketing directors marketers
are making a career transition from
traditional to digital or young
marketers who have the goal of becoming
a director or the first line manager
they want some help to cultivate the
strategic thinking especially in the
digital landscape right and I've been
there and done that and that's my forte
and I know how to help people build that
skill set and I truly believe strategic
thinking can be acquired and I talked
about how do you think strategically and
how to cultivate that thinking in
episode 106 and 107 so check them out
at the same time with the business model
changes I'm also evaluating the content
I offer I relied the content I create
with my business models and created more
templates it's amazing that the
structure of your business models have
ramifications on everything you do
that's also why my one page marketing
plan always starts with the business
goals and the business objectives first
before going into marketing object
business models and objectives guide the
marketing strategy and planning period
Alma speak in front I continue to shop
in my craft I try different ways to
deliver my keynotes and sessions I act
humor whenever possible and I select fun
images and JIP to add colors to my
presentations I try different openings
and closings
I've always view myself as a coach and a
teacher but here is my newfound
discovery I have come to realize that
audience wants to learn but they also
want to be entertained especially going
to sessions after session in a
conference they get very tired right it
get tired being lectured so I being
thinking about what I can do to
entertain them yet also deliver useful
messages and a key takeaways the mindset
of being an entertainer literally
changes how I work and deliver my
presentations now I'm not saying I need
to be a stand-up comedian I wish I were
but it helps to look at different ways
to deliver dry materials
I mean dry materials like messaging
frameworks with sales and marketing
alignments you know kind of blowing
stuff right so I keep asking myself how
can I make it more fun so in addition to
blog posts and the podcast episodes I
launched my youtube channel in October
it's about 10 years late adding video
content has been on my bucket list for
about three years you probably don't
know this but I tended to freeze I mean
really freeze and get very nervous in
front of a camera well after 20 video
episodes I'm seriously
20 and the countless retakes Andry
recording I finally say you know what I
can do this that doesn't mean I'm like
perfect I'm not but now I'm getting so
much better I'm don't freeze in front of
a camera anymore so to be honest YouTube
is not the most ideal channel for
talking about b2b marketing season b2b
marketers usually don't go to youtube to
buy information like initially they tend
to start with Google search I'm doing
for myself to further improve my
presentation skills although I suspect
hmm it's just a hunch millennial b2b
marketers may be going to youtube for
information so kind of paving the way
for myself with business developments
new business models a different approach
to delivering presentations and a launch
of my youtube channel needless to say I
being very busy building a personal
brand and working on client projects are
two I mean two full-time jobs I work
until 11 or 12 often on weekdays and on
weekends my husband Mike I feel sorry
for him would read and do his music or
whatever while patiently waiting for me
to be done for the night I'm so grateful
so grateful to have a partner who allows
me to be me and gives me space to do
what I need to do however he does think
I'm crazy to work that hard I know I'm
kind of crazy so the reflection is not
all about work okay I do yoga two or
three times a week I take on the
challenge of learning one to two
difficult poses every year as of 2019 I
can finally said or declare I can do a
headstand salamba sirsasana handstand
adam uka rashanna and a full arm stand
king john mayer asana for 2020 I want to
focus on a couple of bakkwa Ben
especially the up or bow pose right
which is a backward bend while lifting
your spine using your arms and legs that
is going to be cool and another thing on
my bucket list is to learn how to dance
I'm not kidding I started taking dance
lessons to learn how to waltz and tango
yes I'm a tango dancing b2b marketer I
just sound funny these are two different
dance styles I'm telling you one is
super elegant and fluid and the a lawang
is about showing fours and a crispness
for each move dancing and yoga helped me
manage the stress of working two
full-time job and I love it
looking back on
19 like everyone else I've had good days
and a bad days I've had more setbacks
than successes but that's what life is
about right we learn from setbacks and
failures and I met some great people I
also met some asses seriously not so
cool and I chose to focus on the best
time and that the bad moments and a bad
comma go I'm grateful that every morning
I can look forward to a new day most
importantly I'm grateful for all your
support with the holidays family events
and celebrations approaching I hope that
you'll take a quiet moment with a cup or
a glass of your favorite drink to
reflect on your 20:19 cherish why you've
complex and make a mental note of how
far you have come that goal of
negativity and emotional pain we all
have that get yourself ready for 2020 is
going to be great
so Merry Christmas and Happy New Year
I'll see you in 2020 again this is Pam
from b2b marketing and more with Pam
dinner signing off for 2019
[Music]
if you enjoyed this podcast please share
it with your colleagues and leave a
review on Apple podcasts
[Music]